.TH ovaldi 1 "May 6, 2012" "Version 5.10.1.2" "USER COMMANDS"
.SH NAME
ovaldi \- a reference interpreter for the Open Vulnerability and Assessment Language
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ovaldi
[\-a dir name] [\-c filename] [\-d filename] [\-e <string>] [\-f filename] [\-g filename] [\-i filename] [\-j filename] [\-k filename] [\-l <integer>] [\-o filename] [\-r filename] [\-t filename] [\-v filename] [\-x filename] [\-hmnpsyz] [MD5Hash]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The MITRE Corporation developed the Open Vulnerability and Assessment Language
(OVAL) Interpreter to provide the OVAL Community with an open source reference
implementation of the OVAL Language. The OVAL Interpreter uses OVAL Definitions
to gather security relevant configuration information on a computer (e.g., rpm
parameters, registry keys, file information, etc.), analyze the information for
vulnerabilities and configuration issues, and report the results of the 
analysis for each OVAL Definition.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-h
Displays command line options.
.TP
.B \-o filename
Specifies the pathname of the OVAL Definition document to use.  If none is
specified then the OVAL Interpreter will default to "definitions.xml" in the
OVAL Interpreter directory.
.TP
.B \-v filename
Specifies the pathname of the OVAL Variables document to use.  If none is
specified then the OVAL Interpreter will default to "external-variables.xml" in
the OVAL Interpreter directory.
.TP
.B \-e definition id list
Specifies a list of OVAL Definition ids to evaluate in the input OVAL 
Definitions document. Supply OVAL Definition ids as a comma separated list
like: 
oval:com.example:def:123,oval:com.example:def:234
.TP
.B \-f filename
Path to a file containing a list of OVAL Definitions to be evaluated. The file
must comply with the evaluation-id schema.
.TP
.B \-m
Run without requiring an MD5 checksum.  Running the OVAL Interpreter with this
option DISABLES an important security feature.  In normal usage, a trusted
checksum provided on the command line is used to verify the integrity of the
OVAL Definitions document.

Use of this option is recommended only when testing your own draft OVAL
Definitions before submitting them to the OVAL Community Forum for public 
review.
.TP
.B \-c filename
Perform Schematron validation on the input OVAL Definitions document. If a path to an xsl
is specified, it will be used for Schematron validation. If a path is not specified, the 
OVAL Interpreter will default to "oval-definitions-schematron.xsl" in the OVAL Interpreter 
schema directory.
.TP
.B \-a dir name
Specifies the pathname of the directory that contains the OVAL Language Schema
and other XML resources. DEFAULT="/usr/share/ovaldi"
.TP
.B \-i filename
Specifies the pathname of a OVAL System Characteristics document that is to be
used as the basis of the analysis.  In this mode, the OVAL Interpreter does not
perform data collection on the local system, but relies upon the input file, 
which may have been generated on another system.
.TP
.B \-d filename
Specifies the pathname of the file to which collected configuration data is to
be saved. This data is stored in the format defined by the OVAL Systems
Characteristics Schema.
.TP
.B \-g filename
Specifies the pathname of the file containing the directives which are used to
control what information is included in the generated OVAL Results document. The
file must comply with the OVAL Directives schema.
.TP
.B \-r filename
Specifies the pathname of the file to which analysis results are to be saved.
This data is stored according to the format defined by the OVAL Results Schema.
If none is specified than the OVAL Interpreter will default to "results.xml" in
the OVAL Interpreter directory.
.TP
.B \-s
If set do not apply the XSL to the OVAL Results xml.
.TP
.B \-t filename
Specifies the pathname of the XSL file which should be used to transform the 
OVAL Results document. If none is specified then the OVAL Interpreter will 
default to "results_to_html.xsl" in the OVAL Interpreter directory.
.TP
.B \-x filename
Specifies the pathname of the file which XSL transform results are to be saved.
If none is specified then the OVAL Interpreter will default to "results.html" 
in the OVAL Interpreter directory.
.TP
.B \-j filename
Perform Schema and Schematron validation on the output OVAL System Characteristics document. 
If a path to an xsl is specified, it will be used for Schematron validation. If a path is not 
specified, the OVAL Interpreter will default to "oval-system-characteristics-schematron.xsl" in 
the OVAL Interpreter schema directory.
.TP
.B \-k filename
Perform Schema and Schematron validation on the output OVAL Results document. If a path to an xsl 
is specified, it will be used for Schematron validation. If a path is not specified, the OVAL 
Interpreter will default to "oval-results-schematron.xsl" in the OVAL Interpreter schema directory.
.TP
.B \-l <integer>
Logging level.  Log messages at the specified level. 
(DEBUG = 1, INFO = 2, MESSAGE = 3, FATAL = 4). DEFAULT=2
.TP
.B \-p
Verbose output. Print all information and error message to the console.
.TP
.B \-y dir name
Save the ovaldi.log file to a specific location.  The default location is the
current working directory when the executable is run.
.TP
.B \-z
Calculates and prints to the screen the MD5 checksum of the current data file
(definitions.xml by default, or as specified by the \-o option).  This can be
used to manually compare the current file with the trusted checksum available
from the OVAL Web site.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Run the OVAL Interpreter against an OVAL Definitions document, without 
verifying MD5 checksum:
.B ovaldi
\-a /usr/share/ovaldi
\-o linux.definitions.xml
\-m
.SH FILES
.TP
/usr/share/ovaldi/*.xsd
The OVAL Language scheam files.
.SH AUTHOR
Man page written by Jonathan Baker (bakerj@mitre.org)
